# Introduction


In this modern world all the tasks are carried out through web from small to big, which is flexible. One of it is     library management system, making it easy to keep track of records. Library Management Systems are a great way to monitor books, add them, update information in it, search for the suitable one, issue it, and return it when needed. This Library Management System Project is developed in Java, to provide all the features that a Library Management System should usually have and overcome the drawbacks of the present system such as paper based record keeping, mismanagement of data due to manual and paper based handling, vast amount of time wasted in searching for books and library management, and book theft from library. A library management system with functionalities to issue, return, and view the status of books should be user friendly enough so that the person handling it can get the work done efficiently. It is such that people who haven’t used software earlier can also work on it efficiently without knowing any technicalities. A secure system for logins and preventing unauthorized ones is provided so that no one uses it without permission.

The system is divided into sections such as; Login page for admin, Main Page where the admin can add book, add student, issue books, return book, view students and books and search for books which the admin will be directed to on selecting it. Following, it has menu bar on which any extra information about library system can be found. Also admin can logout from the system by logging out. Only admin is permitted to handle all the tasks.
Problem Statement

                  
              Our topic focuses on creating user friendly Library Management System for users. To provide easy and online handling of library records, eliminating the problems faced during paper based working we have created an online Library Management System. With the help of Swing and AWT we have prepared the GUI and added the features to each functionality keeping the user interface simple. 
